1)What is the TCP/IP? (Transport Control Protocol / Internet Protocol)

TCP/IP model consists of five layers: Application,Transport,Network,Data link,physical layer.
   TCP :  create a virtual circuit between the sender and receiver.
    IP:   IP addressing, Host-to-Host communication,Formatting.


2)What is URL? (Uniform Resource Locator)

 reference of web resources on a local computer network.
 URL is a specific type of Uniform resource identifier.


3)What is the IP address? (Internet Protocol)

 Numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network uses the communication purpose.
 Host to network interface.
 Format of IP :  IP 192.100.2:8090  port number: 8090  as well as 


4)Introduction of Computer Networking ? 

 Networking is referred connecting Computers Electronically for the purpose of sharing information .
  Appn, printers , s/w information those files shared with the help of networking.
  network  consists  of  h/w  component  such  as  computer( hubs, switches, routers and other devices).
  many types of network avialable in networki like a LAN & WAN.

  
5) How does an IP address get assigned to your machine?

 Basically DHCP is a network protocol
 DHCP(Dyanamic Host Configuration Protocol)
 DHCP is a typically Service running on the network 
 DHCP is a automatically assign an IP address and other info each Host on Network.

6)What is Routers?

 Basically router is a network device that forward data packets between computer networks.
 for exp: Home & office WiFi network using router .
 shared much more information on a network .
 the Router is indentify packets destination 
 Router is a phyisical standalone devices and virtual software instances.
 

7)What is Switch ?
  
  A switch is a networking h/w  that connects devices on a computer network by using packet switching to receive and forward data to the destination device.
  Switch is a multiport network bridge that uses MAC addresses.
  

8)How does a packet travel from one machine to other machine?

  Application genrates a packet to be sent on the network and send it to layer below .
  packet travel concept of like transport layer is use to End to End communication between two machines.


9)Problem of 2000 servers, find number of switches with each switch having 32 ports and the connectivity among those switches.


 10)what is MAC address?(  Media Access Control)

   Media Access Control address is a unique identifier assigned  network interface controller for use as a network address in communications. 
   This use in common in IEEE 802 networking technology ,
   For Exp : Ethernet, WiFi , & Bluetooth.
   MAC address is also known as  Physical address of a network device.
   MAC is sublayer of Data Link Layer .

  




 

 

  


