What is TCP IP ?
TCP refers to Transmission Control Protocol.TCP/IP has 4 layers.TCP/IP divides the different communications tasks into layers. Each layer has a different function. Data goes through four individual layers before it is received on the other end. TCP/IP then goes through these layers in reverse order to reassemble the data And to present it to the recipient.

Its model is split into four distinct layers.
1.Data Link layer-
datalink layer is what handles the physical parts of sending and receiving data using the Ethernet cable, wireless network, network interface card, device driver in the computer, and so on.

2.Internet layer-
The internet layer (also called the network layer) controls the movement of packets around the network.


3.Transport layer-
The transport layer is what provides a reliable data connection between two devices.

4.Application layer-
The application layer is the group of applications that require network communication.

What is URL ?
RL stands for Uniform Resource Locator, and is used to specify addresses on the World Wide Web. A URL is the fundamental network identification for any resource connected to the web (e.g., hypertext pages, images, and sound files).
URLs have the following format:
protocol://hostname/other_information
For example, the URL for gooogle home page is:http://www.google.com.

What is DHCP ?
DHCP stands for dynamic host configuration protocol and is a network protocol used on IP networks where a DHCP server automatically assigns an IP address and other information to each host on the network so they can communicate efficiently with other endpoints.
In addition to the IP address, DHCP also assigns the subnet mask, default gateway address, domain name server (DNS) address and other pertinent configuration parameters.

What is router ?
The router is a physical or virtual internetworking device that is designed to receive, analyze, and forward data packets between computer networks. A router examines a destination IP address of a given data packet.It shares information with other routers in networking.It uses the routing protocol to transfer the data across a network.A router connects multiple switches

What is Switch ?


Switches facilitate the sharing of resources by connecting together all the devices, including computers, printers, and servers, in a small business network

How does packets travel from one machin to other machine ?
packet is a small amount of data sent over a network,To transfer a packet from source to destination, both MAC address and IP address of the destination should be known. If the destination MAC address is not present then ARP will resolve this issue first then the packet will be delivered to destination host.

There are simple rules for a packet flow in a network:

1.If the destination host is present in the same network of the source host then the packet will be delivered directly to the destination host using MAC address.
2.Within a network, the packet will be delivered on the basis of MAC address.
3.MAC address never crosses its broadcast domain.

 
